website/README.md, before:

# IGNIS Website

A lightweight Express server that serves the Central de Atendimento dashboard.

## Structure
- `server.js` – Express app serving `public/` and `/health` endpoint
- `public/` – Static assets
  - `dashboard.html` – Main dashboard UI (server selection + home views)
  - `style.css` – Design tokens and component styles
  - `app.js` – Client-side controller (routing, data loading, actions)

## Run locally
The website is typically started with the main bot process. If you need to run it standalone:

```powershell
# From repository root
node website/server.js
```

Open http://localhost:3001.

## UI conventions
- Routing: hash-based – `#/servers` for server selection, `#/home` for dashboard
- Design tokens: defined under `:root` in `style.css` (colors, space, radius, shadows)
- Accessibility: focus outlines, aria labels, live regions for feedback
- Loading: skeletons for server list while guilds are fetched; pills and cards skeletons during guild switching
- Toasts: queued with limit and priorities; duplicate toasts collapse and show a counter badge; click to dismiss
- Mobile menu: burger opens a menu with backdrop, focus is trapped until closed; Esc closes; background scroll is disabled while open

## Next steps (tracked in code)
- Add skeletons for hero pills and cards
- Extract a reusable toast component
- Add mobile nav tweaks and wrap controls below 560px

Commit message:

website UX: server search + empty state, more pills, better a11y, lazy images, improved ticket button flows

website/README.md, after:

# IGNIS Website

A lightweight Express server that serves the Central de Atendimento dashboard.

## Structure
- `server.js` – Express app serving `public/` and `/health` endpoint
- `public/` – Static assets
  - `dashboard.html` – Main dashboard UI (server selection + home views)
  - `style.css` – Design tokens and component styles
  - `app.js` – Client-side controller (routing, data loading, actions)

## Run locally
The website is typically started with the main bot process. If you need to run it standalone:

```powershell
# From repository root
node website/server.js
```

Open http://localhost:3001.

## UI conventions
- Routing: hash-based – `#/servers` for server selection, `#/home` for dashboard
- Design tokens: defined under `:root` in `style.css` (colors, space, radius, shadows)
- Accessibility: focus outlines, aria labels, live regions for feedback
- Loading: skeletons for server list while guilds are fetched; pills and cards skeletons during guild switching
- Toasts: queued with limit and priorities; duplicate toasts collapse and show a counter badge; click to dismiss
- Mobile menu: burger opens a menu with backdrop, focus is trapped until closed; Esc closes; background scroll is disabled while open
 - Servers: search box to filter by name; empty state with reload
 - Pills: active tickets and total members populated when guild is selected
 - A11y: keyboard activation for server tiles and card bodies; reduced motion respected; lazy-loading images

## Next steps (tracked in code)
- Add skeletons for hero pills and cards
- Extract a reusable toast component
- Add mobile nav tweaks and wrap controls below 560px
